thank you for joining us at saster scale
I am very excited to have a CEO that I
haven't gotten to know yet but I have
really looked up to from afar which is
Todd McKinnon from OCTA so many
interesting things about the company to
me the identity space and the login
space are always interesting goodness
why is it so hard to deal with logins
and passwords and identity after all
these years so I've always had a
personal interest for a while and it's
also a very interesting space that in
ways might have seemed Niche and today
is A3 billion security and identity
leader so super excited to have you here
Todd thank you for joining everyone here
at
saster yeah it's great to be here I've
been looking forward to this for a long
time so we'll talk on the next slide
about building a category broadly
speaking I identity is not a new
category like Microsoft owned a big
piece of this but what was the big bet
what was the big bet that OCTA rode to
to its current $ 30 billion do Heights
the when I talk about this one it's it's
obvious but it's one of those obvious
principles that is so obvious that
sometimes it gets missed and it it Bears
restating which is you can't if you're
going to be successful in a new market
you like for right now you couldn't
start an online bookstore right yes um
you have to do something that's novel
and something that's directionally
correct with where the trends are going
that give you an advantage and that's
the easy part the hard part is that the
reason that things are unknown and and
the bets are not certain is because no
one knows them so in the early days like
the high order bit by far is making sure
that you're you pick the right Market or
you pick the right differentiation
within that market it it can make you
successful more than anything it can
make you fail more than anything it's
not the only determinant of your success
but it's by far the higher bit and for
us it was the it was basically that the
identity problem the multiple logins the
security the authentication has existed
did since the first computer the and
different generations of Technology had
different versions of identity the bet
for us was that there's really two parts
of it kind of one was that it would be a
big enough problem in the future to
build a large independent company
because previous generation a lot of the
vendors were me sure they got picked up
by bigger companies and never were
independent and surviving test the time
and then the second thing was that there
would be so much cloud in the world and
that there would be a Cloud alternative
for everything it would actually make
sense to have your security and your
loga and your identity be in the cloud
which back in 2009 was not obvious it
was that's true that was seen as crazy
right I that's the I can't trust my
credentials in the cloud exactly yeah
like Cloud the cloud is like my
salespeople are doing something with it
out they got some content maybe an HR
System but not my I'd never do my
infrastructure I have data seter person
where we have our servers and that's I
don't know about that
cloud as an outsider it seemed like OCTA
I'm sure it didn't feel that way to you
but it seemed like OCTA broke out
relatively early but there were
competitors that OCTA pulled away from
and it was interesting you chatted about
how being truly enterpris being staying
up uptime and security were critical
were actually more critical than
features for you pulling away we I think
the first thing was that it it the
product was so differentiated in terms
of most of the and identity and mean
that it was a cloud service you could
you didn't have to install software and
you didn't have to and especially for
this Market by that time 2010 the ass
SAS business application or SAS email
was you know people were starting to
accept that and it wasn't that
revolutionary but the people that were
dealing with identity Technologies
they're installing Microsoft AC active
directory or they're doing Computer
Associates identity the fact that we had
a really pre-integrated out- of the boox
nice looking UI that was up and running
and connected to their systems in
minutes was just shocking right so that
was really differentiated us from all
the Legacy identity Suites that were
dominating the landscape of the time and
and then against the smaller competitors
that were maybe a couple years before us
or about the same time as we were we
really did we focused on a couple one
things we just made sure that the
service was going to be reliable and
scalable and then we also spent a bunch
of we I remember we spent seven or eight
months just engineering the fact that we
didn't have to take it down for
maintenance and before I came from
Salesforce and we had to take the
service down for four hours every three
months for maintenance to upgrade it yes
and that was the way way things were
done but with OCTA it was your front
door you couldn't take it down so we had
to spend eight months in a competitive
market where we weren't shipping any
features because we had we knew that we
had to be able to not take it down when
we upgraded it that is was Founders
forever but certainly maybe up until 203
million that's one of the most stressful
things is that effort to refactor or to
invest in infrastructure when your
feature poor it's so stressful isn't it
did you have to put your fist down as
coo I so I think that I don't remember
it as being that controversial
internally I think just because it was
obvious okay all right guys what are we
what are they say we tell them to take
the service down for four hours they're
G be like
no so it was that one was
uncontroversial but I do think a lot of
people I think a lot of people over
we're talking about how this worked out
well for us but I think a lot of early
companies too much refactoring and too
much perfecting of the architecture
being successful in the marketplace and
getting momentum with customers can make
up for a lot of sense and give you a lot
of time and effort and flexibility to
refactor all the amazing big companies
like Facebook and Google and these
companies all refactored three times
they do but I wonder and and you were
pretty senior in engineering at
Salesforce right you were vpl you were
one of the leaders no I was running
engineering yeah all of engineering yeah
I should have to me it's harder in SASS
and Cloud a lot of time times in in B
Toc it's complicated but it's more
modularized you can take pieces out I I
go on LinkedIn every day and my my
postfeed breaks for an hour or two but
no one really knows what OCTA can't ever
go down can it is so meta it can't ever
go down I'm not saying you can I'm not
saying once you make it you can refactor
it bring it all down I'm just saying you
you get some more breathing room to do
it behind the scenes the question I'd
ask for advice for Founders even for me
because I still find the topic stressful
and cathartic is how much on the one
hand you had to take these eight months
out right to make up for your technical
debt and we all have technical debt on
the other hand you were going very
Enterprise in many ways you were doing
that so you could be the Enterprise
winner and own reliability and so how
much of a hack can we live with how long
can we be because you probably have had
the opportunity to think about this more
than anyone how much on a scale of one
to 10 of the hacky scale how much was
OCTA hack before you spend eight months
building that
reliability I can't say Octan hack in
the same sense it's
myal it's we still have debt today so
it's I don't mean to you know imply that
we have we've perfected this by any
degree but I think it really M I think
you have to be honest with yourself
about when you do take out time from
delivering directly visible customer
features to for to work on refactoring
or architecture you have to make sure
that it's not it's going to have real
benefit right like it's like the benefit
of not taking it down for maintenance we
could say it in one sentence clearly the
the benefit of going to the new
JavaScript framework for because it's
the cool new thing yes that may be
dubious so I would just say just have a
real honest conversation about what the
benefits are and so how early was that
was that in year two or when did you do
that eight-month project to to have no
down year one yeah year one year one and
so you mentioned before you didn't feel
like you were super early to the space
you felt like you were relatively early
but that would let you jump ahead in
terms of the Enterprise to making that
Enterprise
bet yeah that's right I think that the
we did a better job on reliability and
the robustness on against some of the
competitors that were starting in the
cloud and and at our same size and stage
and then the other thing that helped us
was and I think it's probably go to
market is there's lots of theories about
the best way to go to you know best go
to market strategy and so forth the one
thing I've learned is that there it's
dangerous to generalize and it's very
custom very Market specific there's good
principles that apply on different kinds
of go to market but the right go to
market for you is pretty it's pretty
Market dependent and for us the fact
that we were doing this Security in the
cloud this thing that was highly it Le
at least in the early days was going to
be it was going to be very
reference-based to selling the people
that trusted other people that used it
so we really went hard in on direct
sales and we raised a lot of money and
we hired sales people the first 50
customers the first 100 customers I
probably at some level personally sold a
lot of them right got it trust me I
could build this it's going to work
you're not going to look fool when
you're the only one doing this and that
helped us get it going definitely the
classic Enterprise Playbook bring in the
CEO leverage her his background sell
high and sell on trust we will deliver
this for you did you have and I wanted
cuz you talked about trends that you bet
on and let's talk about Cloud versus
Mobile versus developer because that was
a fun conversation but when we talk
about those early days how for the long
taale how many apps did OCTA have to
have on the login side even back then
the average Enterprise probably had a
hundred apps including some that you
barely touched right yeah I remember the
first when we first we got I think we
did something smart as well which is we
talked to customers very early it was
customer development from the very early
days yeah and we got the product out
there and sold and being used very early
I remember the first customer we had was
there were two apps there were
Salesforce and Google still around today
exactly we can we had instead of two
logins you had one log to two it was
great and but it was an strategy for
figuring out which we built a nice
extensible platform so we could connect
to other applications easily but the
strategy was basically the first 10
customers we asked them what did they
have yeah and we integrated those and
then we kept going kept going and pretty
soon we got the the kind of the fat into
the distribution where it was the common
ones and then for a long time it was it
it took a while to start to work down
the long tail but that's when the the
benefit of this became really clear when
you could go into an a company and you
could cover over 90% of the apps they
have right got it so I would say that
the the fat part of the tail the com
very common apps everyone has got to
started but I would say within a couple
years we built out our catalog so that
you get enough down the long tail with
with some customization tools to get to
everything that you could deliver the
value proposition okay we can cover
everything because customers do want
everything covered they do so in the
early days when you came in you had
Salesforce and Google those make sense
but when someone had a Microsoft
Dynamics instance or an sap instance or
instead of workday they had another
application how did you handle that when
you meeting with a big account did you
just quietly go off and build it and
wave your hands or did you convince them
to to have 80% of their apps in the
Federation or how'd you handle that
scenario because it happens to a lot of
us yeah in the early so and the other
thing in the early especially in the
early days it was there would be a use
case right we for example we got really
good at delivering the value proposition
of hey you're going to use box we'll
connect box to your on premise d
so it won't even be multiple apps it'll
just be you can use your windows network
password to log into box which is much
easier for the users so it's like coming
at a slice of it and then maybe they
would add hey you're also using these
other the email app and the and
Salesforce automation so you can add
those and it would extend over time but
I think that the other key thing here
too is that we some of the vendors in
the space were very protocol specific
they're like oh yeah everyone's going to
work on our protocol and then someone's
going to do the work back to us we were
like that we were like we're going to do
the work what do you have okay 10 we can
do that make it work and then what
happened over time is that we got enough
customers that then people would come to
us and you use our apis to integrate to
our platform yes which is so I think the
lesson there is I think Paul Graham
talks about doing things that aren't
scalable don't try to make it too
perfect in the beginning you got to do
things that aren't scalable like just
Scrappy and get it done and then let the
momentum build around you but so you had
the API and then and but you did more of
that unscalable work for longer you
built more of the Integrations
yourself because a lot of us hope that
this API we build in year one the
developers will Gom on to it and it's
great but it's a good it's a good lesson
you may have to carry that a lot longer
than you think right yeah and it's and
know I think we have another there's
another lesson about it's in the slides
is listening to the customer and I just
you have to it's a delegate balance
between literally doing what the
customer says and and then comining that
with your own vision of what's right for
the company but I think a lot of times
companies make the mistake of lot not
listening to the customer enough and our
customers were telling us they want a
bunch of apps they don't want
protocols and I want to come to that
customer point but let's hit one thing
because it was so interesting in the
earliest days about which bets you have
to get right and so that we talked about
three bets that OCTA is still working on
today there's Cloud which was ended up
being an A+ with an important note that
going Enterprise was the winning
strategy here it's not always it's not
in every category but it really worked
there was mobile that you felt you were
late to but survived right and then
there's developer which you took a while
to invest as heavily as you in Cloud so
what did you learn about where to place
your
bets the I think the big thing is that I
guess it's could be comforting or it can
be disconcerting depend on how you look
at it which is the if you don't if you
don't get if you don't get one A+ if you
don't get one big bet you're probably
going to struggle so that could be
comforting because you'll have to get
one right or it could be stressful
because you're not sure and then beyond
that I think you can you do have you
don't have to get everything Perfect
Right these companies that are
successful aren't you're not like 19 for
19 on all the bets so I think for us as
you said we started in 2009 and and I
started going to Market and right after
the iPad and the iPhone were really
rampant and we were our story on mobile
wasn't good for a number of years and we
had to try a couple times and we had a
architecturals changes we made to make
it work we did a l for and managing
mobile devices which didn't work out it
turns out that what people really want
on mobile
is it's simple in retrospect but they
just want login and security to Work N
natively and seamlessly and I think we
were a little late and then we tried to
go too broad on it and try to do too
much with the device instead of sticking
to our core and make it just amazing on
the platform but it didn't kill you
right you had the brand you had the
winner and so you Camp be A+ and
everything customers were willing to
work with you until mobile caught up
with the cloud part of the
portfolio yeah it's other companies too
right Facebook was they had a 4 mobile
that wasn't great in their if you look
at their S1 it was mobile was like a
risk factor and three or four years
later it mobile it could disrupt their
web business and four or five years
later it was like the main the all the
revenue almost I'm still waiting for the
Instagram to really work on my iPad if
you have any connections over there
let them know it's true and then
developer was interesting because
developer in some ways is a different
sale as we talked about before you so
enterpris and so it focused that maybe
developers were not as big a focus in
the early days yeah we so are I
mentioned earlier the the two parts of
our business we have employee identity
and customer identity the customer
identity for us really came out of talk
about listening to the customers
customers kept wanting to use OCTA where
we'd sell it to them for their employees
and they would want to use it for their
customers or people outside of their
employee based Partners or common thing
was like Insurance Brokers thing you
would think of like external people not
employees and they' be using the
application for this we had a I remember
we had a big Pharma company that wanted
to use it for hundreds of thousands of
doctors to log in and get prescription
information and we were like listening
to this for a while we like do you
really want to do that we finally
realized that it was going to be a big
part of our business and I think the
mistake was is that to your point we
didn't shift early enough to knowing
that this some of the buyers in this new
market were going to be overlapping
there were new influencers and new
buyers whether it was the product person
whether it was the developers that were
thinking about building out these new
solutions that we going to be customer
facing and getting our product that was
getting our product A+ to work perfectly
for the developer was something if I had
to do the last 10 years overr I would
have done much sooner yeah was it as
simple as putting a small team on it
earlier or what would have been the best
accelerant there I ironically I think
that it's the opposite of that it's it's
much deeper than just having apis or
just having a good website it's because
the thing about developers is they're
smart it once they get past the website
and the API they realize the core of the
architecture how it's built yeah so I
think that's one of the reasons why it
if it was just the team or a website
maybe it wouldn't be that much of a
problem because you could do it quickly
but it it takes a long which is why
being late slows you down and just one
small nerdy question I know I'm talking
to uh a great engineer but what when you
had to add the customer piece a lot of
orgs it's very complicated to re
architect like slack and others when you
hadn't planned to have a multi-org
application right when everything was is
supposed to be inside of one company
it's often complicated to share data
across companies was that a huge project
I think we had an advantage where some
we got fortunate on some of the internal
architectures so a customer could pretty
easily have separate instances of OCTA
got it and and that helped us a lot
because it is as much as it is as much
as the benefit of having one platform
that does both in terms of knowing how
to administer it that's going to scale
and so forth they do want it segmented
so it was pretty easy for us to split
that apart in our back end and let's
take now let's take a couple minutes you
had your lesson was on creating a
category but you had a very interesting
version of that in terms of the issues
and in which is that the customers got
OCTA identity security login these were
issues since the Mainframe probably
never used a main for sure since logging
into computers in college
punch card that's a that yes it's a
punch card you just slide that one in I
actually had a summer job where I had to
type punch card data into a database
manually there was no way to do it but
yeah that was yeah I'm I'm the my ages
that I ever used Punch Cards for was a
scrap paper in second grade a scrap
paper there's a little bit of they were
cool though so your customers got it but
this is a problem that some of us
struggle with although the opposite when
we think about creating category Cas
which is getting employees and investors
excited today it's easy today literally
you can show someone a computer and have
them use OCTA to log in and like okay I
want to work there I get it I this is a
safe way for me to log in but in the
early days ah this is too small this
isn't how do I compete with Facebook so
talk a little bit about how you
convinced employees and investors to
join this Niche unexciting space in the
beginning oh man it's I still get pissed
off when when you say that like just
there's that reaction from those days it
does it drives reaction it's not true
right it's huge it's gonna be worth
billions guys trust me wor billions yeah
when I it's the customers knew like the
customers knew right like you go to a
customer and it was never customers like
oh my God yes please solve this can you
solve it this would be awesome this is
going to be the best company ever but at
the time there was local was really hot
and mobile was really hot and there were
all these companies that yeah lo I
forgot when that was hot yeah that was
hot yeah were taking off and so for
investors and luckily we did get great
investors but a lot of the investors we
talked to were there's never been an
independent identity company the best
case outcome here is it'll get bought by
ca for small amount of money and it's
not a big enough problem and employ
could to get excited and the learning
for me was that if you stick with your
vision and you power through that it's
it feels really bad in the moment but
it's good because once it flips and once
you prove that it is big enough you buy
de facto own the category right you're
the person now and now all of a sudden
you're you go from person that was
pushing the rock up the hill to be in
this person that or this company that is
really setting the agenda which as
painful as going through the process is
you almost want to seek that out because
that means that if you get through it
you have this really powerful position
of defining the category and saying
obviously since there never was a
company before that did this at scale
and now we're doing this at scale by
definition you should listen to us and
what's going to happen next and you
should buy our products and you should
come work for us and the contrast
between the two states was was pretty
poignant in my mind and defining
category turns out to be a mode if you
execute it perfectly it's like a super
brand and not only do you have a brand
in the space but you own that space so
it's a double mode right you get the
ironic thing is that when you're going
through the tough parts of that process
yeah the natural reaction is to try to
if that's a word undifferentiated
Yourself by shifting into something else
that someone else owns oh we're really
like yeah exactly we're really we're not
identity we're collboration a lot of
people know about that and that kind of
kills the benefit of it and when I know
I find there's specific moments in terms
of AR but you may forget but when did
you feel it as a Founder as a c when did
you feel that line had been crossed
where you had that Mo you were that
category leader wouldn't what because we
all wait it always seems to take too
long yeah yeah for sure I think it was
we were probably like 50ish eror 50
that's pretty late in some ways maybe
maybe a little later maybe 30 and at the
same time what really happened was
Microsoft announced a competitive
product then yeah no seriously it scared
the out of me but but once I calm
down I was like wait a minute first of
all they're telling everyone in the
world to move with the cloud with Office
365 so that's got to be good and we were
seeing that in the customer base that
was like tons of demand because emails
in the cloud now of course we need
identity and then the second thing was
that this companies want to see a choice
they they don't want to just they want
to look on a sheet and see okay there's
two choices here which one am I going to
pick so it validated the category to
that degree as well but those the the
years after that were a lot different a
lot bigger faster stronger just one this
question because it happens to us when
you when you opened up the your Google
and saw that Microsoft was competing how
long does it take you to get over it a
day a week how do you communicate to
that to the company other than that it
doesn't matter like how long does it
take you to realize they they usually
can't kill you right 95 times out of a
100 I think you I think it really takes
a a year like a year in the market to
convince yourself that it's not going to
happen but but I think that psych or um
intellectually you can get there pretty
quickly even psychologically I think you
can tell yourself the odds are pretty
low but I think it took a year of us
seeing the behavior in the market and
how the customers reacted to really know
that it was going to be an advantage and
you obviously saw some of this on the
other side at Salesforce how can you
tell I've learned certain tells but how
can you tell if some like Microsoft
whether it's a high enough priority are
they going to go the distance like it's
one thing to launch a product because if
you're Microsoft you have a 100 great
Engineers just extra right but will you
go years two three and four without
Revenue will you build chatter into a
slack competitor how do are there tells
that you saw that that maybe it would it
wouldn't be their top priority there
there are yeah I think they're different
for different companies like Salesforce
launched a competing product too yes was
that scary too having worked there or
was it less scary that it was less scary
just because they didn't have control of
email email is a really strong a really
important app for employee identity and
this was when the company was 100%
employee identity now it's about 25%
customer identity so anyways so
Salesforce was less scary just because
of that but I remember that they when
they announced it they it was not even
part of dreamforce they was like they
leaked it before dreamforce like as a
preak ah and once I once I did that I
knew they weren't serious about it oh
might have guessed it was the opposite
we're going to we're going to promote it
twice we're going to leak it and then
we're going to it didn't show up in Dre
for oh show then you knew and with
Microsoft what the tell was when they
what the features they were delivering
were you could tell that they weren't
doing things for identity they were
doing things for Office 365 so they were
doing things make too focused on them as
their own vendor right yeah exactly yeah
they weren't you can tell they weren't
going after the customer requirement
they were going after the which I
understand why Microsoft would do this
too they're making sure that the $2
billion communication collaboration
business Thrive and that that was I
think well that's where you can almost
always win right if the big guy is
focused on a single cloud or a single
app and you're going multicloud multia
it's imposs they're never going to have
the investment the Salesforce or
Microsoft at someone that's going to
serve hundreds of vendors right they'll
never have it will they yeah it's just a
it looks un surf a lot of people
especially in technology people look at
products and they overfit different
products to to being the same right so
they'll look at our identity and
Microsoft's identity they'll say oh
they're both identity it's the same
they're competing but the reality is
that it's when you really get into the
details an independent identity product
that's going to connect you to multiple
clouds and multiple systems it's pretty
different than they have which is pretty
coupled to their environment and I don't
know if this happens at OCTA but it
happens with a lot of other vendors with
similar Dynamics do Microsoft and
Salesforce generate leads for you when
they buy the internal product and they
realiz hey I need more like I need more
than just something tied to Microsoft or
Salesforce and then they reach out to
the sales team wanting to do more it
happens a lot and it's not just when
they it's I would say it's when they
just buy Salesforce or buy Microsoft
right and then it's also when they look
at that product it happens with Amazon a
lot too like Amazon has some developer
tools that they're Amazon tends to
they're they're doing a lot of things
but nothing super deep they're
successful a lot with the services that
are Broad and and don't have to be super
deep but the ones they have that are
more not as deep they tend to get
customers excited about them and then
they need a real alternative once they
get rolling yeah people fear when the
big company launches something that
either isn't as Enterprise or as nichy
that often can be an incredible source
of leads for you right it's not just
evangelism or making the market it's
that they just don't do enough and they
outgrow that vendor and so it can be a
gift yeah yeah might take a year to
figure it out yeah yeah it's I'm being
real Jason it wasn't like overnight I
was confident no I know and it's funny
actually the scar the part that hurts me
a little bit is that you felt that way
at 30 or 40 or 50 million of Revenue not
5 million or 10 million I like to think
that's unkillable maybe you think it was
looking back but at the time it didn't
feel like if you still felt like a
startup didn't you yeah yeah I think
that's true that's true it is
interesting that the the whole point
about the early psychology like how it
impacts how you go about things this
idea that I heard this over and over
it's not big enough it's not substantial
enough it's not going to be a big market
and even till two or three years ago
I would explain the company to investors
in this pretty Broad and platform way
and it's this big thing and they would
look at me and they'd be like wait a
minute it's like single sign on right
it's you get one password for everything
why you just say that that's awesome I
would love that and a lot of it is just
because I have the stars from when I had
to really make it this big thing when
people needed to believe in and turned
out the cloud got plenty big enough to
solve a lot of these issues anyway
didn't it yeah that was a good bet and
then one last one on this piece and then
I want to make sure we have a few
minutes to talk about the other points
but it was a funny story about
competition you were worried about
competing with Salesforce there was you
didn't even hire a single person for
four years to try and maintain the
relationship but it didn't make a
difference did it yeah I was I was
running engineering there and was pretty
senstive the good ones yeah yeah and I
so yeah and I didn't want to piss off
Salesforce because I figured that they
would it would be a good partner they
would help sell our product or yeah it
turns out that like a lot of companies
Salesforce is more into to sell on their
own product than your
product so it it didn't end up being it
did did not end up being that that
helpful to have that relationship but
like a lot of things you got to do it on
your own and it's not no one else is
going to help you do it yeah so two
things I want to make sure we hit before
we run out of time and just take C
questions I know we've gone long but
there was one um great thing that came
up when we chatt yesterday you had a
tweet the other day talking about the
latest Gartner release in your space and
saying we're we we're marketing leader
we're the number one in the space but we
want to do even better right we want to
be even higher in that magic quadrant
and it was so transparent and I thought
it was inspirational it was very direct
and what was the messaging there what
were you trying to say and how do you
were you trying to communicate to
employees and customers with that
message I think it's I I so I think it's
really important especially for
employees that we at OCTA we try to
treat employees like owners and Builders
and part of that is being
straightforward with
yes one of the things about being like
everyone in the audience knows that is
building a company or starting a company
is the founder or early employees they
know that they get all the information
better for worse and it's like that
feeling of is really it's really
empowering to people it's I know what's
going on I in fact with OCTA we did this
in the early days and it and we continue
to to do this today but in the early
days it was like I didn't know how to
figure out the problems I needed help so
the team sharing with the team rallied
the team and helped us survive basically
the other days so I think the magic
quadrant we got the the new M which is
really magic quadrant is a in our
environment with Enterprise buyers is
pretty important and last year we were
like way up in the leader position and
this year we came down a little bit the
other competitors got got around us and
caught us a little bit in the quadrant
and it was everyone's bummed out when
that happens right everyone and then and
then yeah everyone's natural reaction is
oh we got to like how are we going to
spin this are you going to say that
maybe we blame Gartner we they didn't do
the good job or oh it's the competitor
Microsoft paid them a lot of money it's
all this crazy ideas that aren't true at
all and so I felt like the best thing to
do would just be tell the employees that
hey I'm disappointed and here's what the
feedback was and by the way we need to
listen to feedback we have a lot of
things we could do better across the
board and this is a good source of
feedback we might not like it but let's
take the feedback and get stronger and I
think it and and the last thing is I
just I I saw that a tendency not just to
rationalize it internally but the the
tendency to like maybe brush it over and
not address it which I also think is I
don't know just not genuine and it feels
it doesn't give the feeling to people
like they're that Builder and that owner
and or even customers or prospects like
they want to know they're dealing with
the company that is forthright and
transparent and honest and they can
trust with their security so it's an
important part of our brain I love the
thing that you said which is 99 times
out of 100 truths your friend people
yeah people are most people are good
people doing the right thing and
sometimes they can complicate the
communication part of it and if they can
just be honest and open and their people
are goingon to yeah the truth resonates
and people it's gets especially now
where there's so much transparency
online and buyers are discovering things
and watching talking to their peers and
so forth the the more transparent
truthful you are the more trust
trustworthy you can be perceived the
stronger your brand is going to be yeah
I love it and then your followup was
don't worry because we worry about this
as Founders especially when we're Smalls
don't worry about drawing attention to
something just H just handle it head on
and it it's okay your customers get it
your employees get it and don't worry
that bringing it up talking to your
customers talking on Twitter is going to
bring too much attention to a question
yeah if it's a relevant question and if
it's a relevant issue yeah the people
that it matters to are going to know
about it like for us the people that
look at the magic quadrant have already
looked at it they're not going to go
look at it and see our position went
down a little bit because I tweet about
it why don't we there's more stuff I I'd
love to get into but why don't we wrap
this up with just I think we got through
one slide Jason I know you think you can
close a seven fig deal without getting
on a jet depends on if the competitor
does I I think that that that the when
you're showing difference like when it's
uh doing something to a competitor will
or well might be more complicated all
right just two more and then we'll wrap
it up because this is so great um one
was just a super specific question on
your interviewing process when you
interview when you do interview
directors and above now or VPS and above
where do you drop in at the end in the
middle and do you veto today or do you
just provide counsel during those
interviews I so it's at the end yeah and
the purpose of it is it's really not a
it's not a like a a veto thing it's
really a I want to talk about the
culture and I want to build a
relationship with the person so that I
feel like I have more of that connection
and I can be a more effective leader for
those leaders and that's the purpose of
it if it it has a good impact on the
people too as they should feel that
makes feel special it makes them feel
like the CEO cares and I've probably
done I don't know how many of them I've
probably done in the last five years
I've probably done 500 of them yeah I
did veto one person one out of five yeah
it's 50 times more impactful if it's
before they start than if it's right
after they start isn't it yeah for me
too it's you learn interesting things
you talk about their companies you talk
about you learn a lot about what's going
on with other companies and markets and
stuff it's interesting all right this
last one it's so the last lesson six you
had take more photos you have to have
gone you have to have been a founder and
gone at least five years I think to get
this one and like a little cheer to my
eye came when I saw this what does take
more photo I know what it means but what
does take more photos mean it's the hard
thing about what we were doing you were
doing and what a lot of people in the
audience are doing is that but the
definition of it is that you don't know
if you're going to succeed because if
you knew if you're going to succeed it
would you would be not making the right
big bet you would be not creating the
category you'd by definition not be
doing what we're all trying to do so
then in that uncertainty and in that
apprehension yeah you're like why do I
need to take a photo of this this might
not all work it's not going to be
something we celebrate about but I think
take more photos is you have a chance
and it and it's going to be amazing and
it's almost the sun will come out it's
it could work out make sure you take
photos because you're going to look back
at this and love these early days when
when you weren't sure it was going to
work out but turns out it was
yeah and celebrate all the mini
victories right don't it's as Co I know
it's back to work the next day but
you've got to celebrate them don't you
we almost all under celebrate the mini
wins don't we yeah yeah yeah yeah yes
any yeah especially when you're trying
to when you know the next battle's
coming so it's always coming all right
Todd this was incredible this was one of
this was a terrific session A+ yeah
thank you for all your time talk with
you soon